It was a queer, sultry summer, the summer they electrocuted the
Rosenbergs, and I didn't know what I was doing in New York.  I'm stupid
about executions.  The idea of being electrocuted makes me sick, and
that's all there was to read about in the papers--goggle-eyed headlines
staring up at me on every street corner and at the fusty,
peanut-smelling mouth of every subway.  It had nothing to do with me,
but I couldn't help wondering what it would be like, being burned alive
all along your nerves.

I thought it must be the worst thing in the world.

New York was bad enough.  By nine in the morning the fake, country-wet
freshness that somehow seeped in overnight evaporated like the tail end
of a sweet dream.  Mirage-grey at the bottom of their granite canyons,
the hot streets wavered in the sun, the car tops sizzled and glittered,
and the dry, tindery dust blew into my eyes and down my throat.

I kept hearing about the Rosenbergs over the radio and at the office
till I couldn't get them out of my mind.  It was like the first time I
saw a cadaver.  For weeks afterwards, the cadaver's head--or what there
was left of it--floated up behind my eggs and bacon at breakfast and
behind the face of Buddy Willard, who was responsible for my seeing it
in the first place, and pretty soon I felt as though I were carrying
that cadaver's head around with me on a string, like some black,
noseless balloon stinking of vinegar.

I knew something was wrong with me that summer, because all I could
think about was the Rosenbergs and how stupid I'd been to buy all those
uncomfortable, expensive clothes, hanging limp as fish in my closet,
and how all the little successes I'd totted up so happily at college
fizzled to nothing outside the slick marble and plate-glass fronts
along Madison Avenue.

I was supposed to be having the time of my life.

I was supposed to be the envy of thousands of other college girls just
like me all over America who wanted nothing more than to be tripping
about in those same size seven patent leather shoes I'd bought in
Bloomingdale's one lunch hour with a black patent leather belt and
black patent leather pocket-book to match.  And when my picture came
out in the magazine the twelve of us were working on--drinking martinis
in a skimpy, imitation silver-lam√© bodice stuck on to a big, fat cloud
of white tulle, on some Starlight Roof, in the company of several
anonymous young men with all-American bone structures hired or loaned
for the occasion--everybody would think I must be having a real whirl.

Look what can happen in this country, they'd say.  A girl lives in some
out-of-the-way town for nineteen years, so poor she can't afford a
magazine, and then she gets a scholarship to college and wins a prize
here and a prize there and ends up steering New York like her own
private car.

Only I wasn't steering anything, not even myself.  I just bumped from
my hotel to work and to parties and from parties to my hotel and back
to work like a numb trolley-bus.  I guess I should have been excited
the way most of the other girls were, but I couldn't get myself to
react.  I felt very still and very empty, the way the eye of a tornado
must feel, moving dully along in the middle of the surrounding
hullabaloo.


There were twelve of us at the hotel.

We had all won a fashion magazine contest, by writing essays and
stories and poems and fashion blurbs, and as prizes they gave us jobs
in New York for a month, expenses paid, and piles and piles of free
bonuses, like ballet tickets and passes to fashion shows and hair
stylings at a famous expensive salon and chances to meet successful
people in the field of our desire and advice about what to do with our
particular complexions.

I still have the make-up kit they gave me, fitted out for a person with
brown eyes and brown hair: an oblong of brown mascara with a tiny
brush, and a round basin of blue eye-shadow just big enough to dab the
tip of your finger in, and three lipsticks ranging from red to pink,
all cased in the same little gilt box with a mirror on one side.  I
also have a white plastic sun-glasses case with coloured shells and
sequins and a green plastic starfish sewed on to it.

I realized we kept piling up these presents because it was as good as
free advertising for the firms involved, but I couldn't be cynical.  I
got such a kick out of all those free gifts showering on to us.  For a
long time afterwards I hid them away, but later, when I was all right
again, I brought them out, and I still have them around the house.  I
use the lipsticks now and then, and last week I cut the plastic
starfish off the sun-glasses case for the baby to play with.

So there were twelve of us at the hotel, in the same wing on the same
floor in single rooms, one after the other, and it reminded me of my
dormitory at college.  It wasn't a proper hotel--I mean a hotel where
there are both men and women mixed about here and there on the same
floor.